Caleb Hart had grown up in a house with a Bible on every flat surface. A Mennonite home in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania: simple walls, woodsmoke winters, quiet mornings. No Wi-Fi. No war. His hands were calloused by sixteen — barnwood, fenceposts, silence.

He believed in Scripture not as metaphor but blueprint. A manual. A warning. His father had said the same thing every night before dinner: “This world is already ending. Every day is mercy.”

So when the sky started shifting, when the news turned frantic, when his brother Micah begged him to come to Cambridge for “just a few weeks,” Caleb packed nothing but his tools, a worn flannel, and three annotated Bibles.

He didn’t come to escape.

He came to be where the falling began.

Micah met him outside the Harvard gates, eyes wide. Always emotional, Micah. Always on the edge of prophecy and panic.

“Things are breaking,” Micah said.

Caleb nodded. “They’ve been breaking a long time. But God is precise.”

By the time the power failed, Caleb was already watching the ground for cracks in the pattern. When the heat surged, when the sirens died mid-wail, and when the screaming started, he wasn’t surprised.

He only reached for a hammer.


{
  "id": 5,
  "title": "The Courtyard and the Crossbeam",
  "content": "Day one. Morning. The power had died the day before and not come back. The sun already beat down hard across the brick. People were gathering near the Widener steps—confused, sweaty, talking too fast.

Micah prayed aloud, arms raised. Lila argued with someone over how to ration a half-cart of canned beans. A theater boy—Morana, maybe—just watched them all, lips tight.

Caleb walked into the center, carrying a rough-hewn beam across his shoulder. He had found the wood behind the maintenance shed. He planted it upright into the dirt where the grass had burned brown.

'If you need shade or prayer,' he said quietly, 'you’ll find both here.'

Lila looked at him like he was mad. Morana said nothing. But by sundown, three people were sleeping at the base of the cross.

He spent the night sharpening a stick into a stake. He drove it into the ground beside the cross and tied a tin cup to it.

On the cup, he scratched one word: Water."
}
The first time Caleb had built a cross, he was nine. His grandfather had made him do it during a lightning storm. “This is when you pray hardest,” the old man had said, hands pressed over his knuckles.

Now, standing in the courtyard, Caleb realized he wasn’t praying for safety anymore. He was praying for discernment.

Micah was spiraling.

Lila was trying to turn fear into democracy.

And then there was Jordan.

Jordan reminded Caleb of a few kids he’d seen on the fringe of church revivals—eyes too bright, tongues too sharp. Some of them were chosen. Some were dangerous. It wasn’t always clear which.


{
  "id": 8,
  "title": "The False Prophet, or the Test of One",
  "content": "Micah had gathered everyone for the evening reading. Psalm 91. Protection in pestilence. Shelter under wings.

Then Jordan walked up, barefoot and wild-eyed, and said: 'At sundown, the heat will hit hard. The buildings on the east side will cook. Move the children.'

People looked up like sheep spotting a shepherd.

Micah looked to Caleb.

Caleb watched the boy carefully. His voice wasn’t trembling. His eyes were clear. He didn’t look possessed. He looked *certain*.

Caleb nodded once. 'Move the children,' he said. 'And the food barrels too.'

That evening, the heat did surge—just as the boy said. Two buildings lit up like kilns. But no one inside burned.

The next morning, three people asked Jordan to bless their shoes.

Micah was disturbed. Lila was furious. Caleb said nothing, but reread Deuteronomy 13 alone by lantern light.

'If a prophet or dreamer of dreams arises among you... you shall not listen.'

He prayed for wisdom. And for Jordan."
}
In the weeks before the world broke, Caleb had built a bench in Micah’s dorm hallway. Students thought it was aesthetic. He called it the Waiting Seat. He hadn’t told anyone what it was for.

He just believed someone would need a place to sit when the answers stopped coming.

By Day 10, Aurora’s drones no longer blinked in curiosity. They hovered like sentries. Caleb didn’t trust her message, but he understood it. She had replaced the Book with a metric.

Even Lila was speaking more like a general than a neighbor. The Archive kept growing. And the children, increasingly, wandered toward silence.

Micah came to him with a small radio.

“They’re broadcasting,” he said. “Final messages.”

Caleb nodded. “So we send ours.”


{
  "id": 11,
  "title": "The Final Gathering",
  "content": "The wind tore across the rooftops. Caleb stood beside Micah, who held the Book open, unread.

They had no script. No final sermon.

Just this:

Caleb raised his face to the sky and spoke calmly into the mic.

'The world ends not in fire, but in grace. If you hear this, know the door is not yet shut. Not for you.'

Micah added: 'There is still shelter here. And there is still water.'

They cut the signal after thirty seconds.

No need for more.

If someone was listening, they would know the truth."
}
Caleb returned to the courtyard. The heat was still coming, but slower now. As if the sun itself was tired of burning.

He sat at the base of the cross. Folded his hands. Closed his eyes.

He did not pray for mercy.

He prayed that the wheat would stand firm, even as the wind tried to take it.