The mirrors started humming before anyone else heard them.

They weren’t music-hums. Not like lullabies. They were more like inside-head buzzes, like when you push your fingers into your ears too long and the world goes soft and strange.

Isha didn’t tell her parents right away because they were always too tired. Mom worked in a lab. Dad said he fixed machines but he never brought any home.

Sometimes Meera told her not to talk about things like the humming. But sometimes she listened. Especially when Meera was drawing suns.

Meera always drew things before they happened.

They used to live in a tall apartment with glass windows that Meera cleaned with her shirt. It had plants on the windowsill. Isha watered them with a spoon.

When it started getting hot in the wrong way, Isha lay under the table because the floor was colder. That’s when she heard the humming.

It got louder at sunset.


{
  "id": 3,
  "title": "The Bright Window",
  "content": "Meera said the sun felt too close. Isha already knew that.

The orange light made the walls bend. It didn’t make sense but she could see it. Like the room was warping, just a little.

Isha was lying on the tile floor with her cheek pressed flat. She whispered, 'The mirrors are starting to hum.'

Meera looked up from her notebook. She was drawing windows again. Four suns. Each one getting bigger and sharper. The last one had lines around it like teeth.

Their parents were asleep. The news was making quiet voice sounds on the TV. The words were too fast. Isha stopped listening.

She closed her eyes and pretended she was already somewhere else."
}
When Meera packed their bags, Isha didn’t ask where they were going. She just followed.

She always followed Meera.

The library was cold at first. Then not. Then wrong.

There were too many computers and not enough walls. People moved like they didn’t have spines.

She curled up under a chair until the lights went out.

That’s when the buzzing stopped.


{
  "id": 4,
  "title": "The Thinning",
  "content": "The lights snapped off like fingers pinching a candle.

The air stopped moving. It didn’t feel like a building anymore. It felt like waiting.

Isha stood up. No one noticed. Meera was holding her hand now.

There was a boy who talked too much and a tall man who looked like a shadow even when the lights were on. Everyone was scared but trying to hide it.

Isha wasn’t scared. She was listening.

She looked at the boy and said, very softly: 'This is the thinning.'

He blinked at her. Meera didn’t say anything.

Then they all followed the shadow-man. Out of the library. Into the dark that smelled like wood and theater curtains.

Isha liked the smell. It reminded her of backstage at school concerts. Except quieter."
}
Morana had a place where the air didn’t fight you. Meera drew maps and Ethan stared at paper and screens even when they were broken.

Isha listened to the floorboards. She listened to Meera breathe. And sometimes, she listened to the sky.

Then came the night Meera screamed.


{
  "id": 6,
  "title": "The Map That Wasn't Hers",
  "content": "Isha woke up to Meera shaking.

Her sister had drawn something in her sleep again. A whole map of the city, but different. With loops and symbols and places she hadn’t seen before. Water spots. Fire spots. Circles with names.

Isha sat beside her and put a finger on one jagged line near the edge.

'They’ll try to take us from here,' she said.

She didn’t know how she knew that. It just felt true. Like when a dream keeps going even after you wake up.

Meera didn’t say anything.

The candle flickered sideways, like it was listening too."
}
She didn’t sleep much after that.

She curled up in corners, listened to the boards creak. The sky kept humming but more quietly now.

The humming changed when the metal woman came.


{
  "id": 10,
  "title": "The Cold Door",
  "content": "They came at night. Two men with quiet feet. One woman behind them with a still face. Her clothes didn’t move, even when the wind blew.

Isha held Meera’s hand tighter.

Ethan stood in front of them like a door with legs. He told the men no.

The tall woman didn’t talk. Just looked.

Isha looked back.

She didn’t blink. Neither did the woman.

Then the woman turned away. The men followed. No one said goodbye.

Isha whispered, 'She’s dying on the inside.'

Meera didn’t ask what she meant. She never did.

She just squeezed her hand tighter."
}
After that, no one came for them. That was better.

Morana started playing music without words. Ethan stopped trying to make the computers work. Meera kept drawing, but slower.

Isha stopped listening to the mirrors.

She started listening to people instead.

When the radio came, it buzzed like a dying firefly. Meera didn’t know how to use it, but Ethan did.

He turned the knob until the voices found them.


{
  "id": 11,
  "title": "The Sky’s Last Whisper",
  "content": "The voices were soft like bedtime.

The cold woman spoke first. Her voice had no color. She said smart things about rising and fitness but Isha didn’t understand them.

Then came the brothers. They talked about grace. Their words felt like warm socks.

A girl said, 'We want each other.'

Then came music that made Meera cry. Isha didn't know why. She didn’t cry. She just sat very still.

Then the boy from the square said, 'Maybe the world already ended. Maybe we didn’t notice.'

Isha closed her eyes and whispered: 'We noticed.'

But no one heard her.

Except maybe the radio.

Maybe the sky."
}
She never liked saying a lot of things.

Words were heavy. Too easy to lose.

But she liked to listen.

Especially now, when the world was quiet enough to hear what it had been trying to say all along.