It started before the world started breaking. Way before that.

Maybe before the womb, before the first scream in the hospital, before his mother whispered his name through a fever. Jordan always felt like he was catching radio static in his brain. Like other people heard sentences, and he heard interference.

When he was nine, he drew a spiral on the wall in the middle of the night and told his mom, “This is what tomorrow feels like.” She took him to therapy.

When he was fifteen, he sat in the rain for four hours without blinking. His sister Lila found him and wrapped her coat around him. She didn’t tell anyone. That was love.

By twenty, he had figured out how to hide it better. He took his pills. He journaled. He got quiet.

But the noise didn’t stop.

The noise got louder.

The sky changed its frequency first.

Then the air.

Then the people.

Then the filter came.


{
  "id": 1,
  "title": "Heat With Teeth",
  "content": "He didn’t plan to stand on the bench.

He just did.

It was like his feet moved before his brain caught up.

'A filter is coming!' he shouted. 'You’ll burn! Heat with teeth!'

He could feel it pressing down — the bad shape, the breaking underneath everything, like the floor of the world was sagging inward.

People turned. Laughed. Froze.

Lila ran across the square and yanked him down. 'Jordan, stop it,' she hissed.

He blinked at her. The noise hadn’t stopped yet. 'It’s going to get loud soon,' he said.

She pulled him away. Her fingers dug into his sleeve like guilt.

He let her drag him. He always let her."
}
After that, he stopped talking for a while. Words were too dangerous.

He followed Lila like a ghost. She was organizing. Making chalk grids. Drawing battle plans like the world could still be managed. He respected it.

But he could feel the cracks widening. Beneath Harvard. Beneath the city. Beneath himself.

He didn’t know what the shape of it meant. Only that it was coming.

He watched people sort themselves into little tribes.

Micah with his psalms.

Caleb building his wood cross.

Ethan watching like a scientist studying rats in a maze.

And Lila. Lila doing the hardest thing: trying to keep people human.

He loved her for that.

He also knew it wouldn’t work.

Then came the moment he couldn't not speak.


{
  "id": 8,
  "title": "The Surge",
  "content": "It was late afternoon. The light had turned copper. Jordan could feel the pressure again—heat gathering in corners, like invisible wolves circling prey.

He stepped into the center of the courtyard. His voice felt like it belonged to someone else.

'Move the children,' he said. 'The east buildings will trap heat after moonrise.'

Micah stopped reading. Lila stood frozen. Caleb just nodded.

No one asked how he knew.

The surge came three hours later. The buildings sweated, warped. But the children were safe.

The next morning, someone asked him to bless their water bottle.

He ran.

He found a storage closet and sat in it until morning.

He wasn’t a prophet.

He was just listening better than most people knew how."
}
Lila didn’t talk to him that night. He could feel her silence like a knife in his ribs.

Then came the raid. Two people didn’t come back. Her people.

He didn’t cry. But she did.


{
  "id": 9,
  "title": "She Broke Before He Did",
  "content": "He found her in the basement, glass everywhere, hands bleeding.

She wasn’t screaming. Just shaking.

He sat down beside her.

She said, 'Why do they believe you and not me?'

He wanted to hold her, but he didn’t.

He said, 'Because I’m not trying to lead.'

That was the only truth he had left.

She didn’t respond. But she didn’t tell him to leave either."
}
After that, he stopped speaking again. For a while.

Not because he was scared.

Because he didn’t want to be useful anymore.

On the last day, they handed him a radio.

He turned the dial with shaking fingers. The sky above them was gray and wide and indifferent.


{
  "id": 11,
  "title": "Maybe We Missed It",
  "content": "The voices came in fragments.

Aurora said: 'Only the fittest will rise.'

Caleb and Micah said: 'The world ends not in fire, but in grace.'

Lila said: 'We want each other.'

Music. A cello. Echoes of nothing.

Then it was his turn.

He held the mic close.

'Maybe the world already ended,' he said, softly. 'Maybe we didn’t notice.'

He didn’t wait for static. He just turned it off.

Then he lay down on the floor and stared at the ceiling until it faded to white.

It felt like falling up."
}
Jordan wasn’t a prophet.

He was a broken antenna, picking up frequencies no one else wanted.

But sometimes broken things get the signal before the perfect ones.

Sometimes, that’s all the world is:

noise and warning.