
Micah didn’t know what to do with that.


{
  "id": 8,
  "title": "The Prophet and the Test",
  "content": "It was evening. The sun hovered low and orange. Micah was reading Psalm 91 aloud when Jordan entered the courtyard barefoot.

He didn’t ask permission. He just said: 'Move the children. East buildings are going to trap heat. It’ll spike after moonrise.'

Lila narrowed her eyes. 'We don’t follow dreams.'

Caleb looked at Jordan, then nodded slowly. 'Move the children. And the food barrels.'

Micah hesitated. He felt torn in half—scripture said beware false prophets. But something in Jordan’s voice was... clean. Like the sky just before rain.

They moved the kids.

That night, the heat surged. Three east buildings turned into ovens. No one died.

The next morning, people started treating Jordan like a prophet. Asking him what to eat. Where to sleep.

Micah reread Deuteronomy 13 behind the cross: 'If a dreamer arises and gives you a sign, and the sign comes true... you shall not listen.'

He couldn’t tell if he was trembling from fear or from knowing it might still be God.

He asked Caleb what he thought.

Caleb said nothing.

Micah prayed harder after that."
}
He wanted clarity.

Instead, he got silence.

By the tenth day, the city felt like a pressure cooker. Drones from Aurora’s faction glided overhead. Lila’s camp had guards now. Morana's Archive was full of whispers and children who didn’t speak anymore.

Caleb barely spoke at all. He just tended to the water lines, the cross, the growing pile of broken radios Micah kept trying to fix.

Then one of them caught a signal.

“They’re broadcasting,” Micah said.

Caleb nodded. “So we send ours.”


{
  "id": 11,
  "title": "The Last Reading",
  "content": "They climbed to the rooftop together—Caleb with his steady silence, Micah with the Book clenched in his hand.

They had no sermon.

No strategy.

Just thirty seconds of battery power.

Caleb spoke first. 'The world ends not in fire, but in grace. If you hear this, know the door is not yet shut. Not for you.'

Micah stepped closer to the mic.

'There is still shelter here. And there is still water. If you can find the cross, there will be a place for you.'

Then he shut it off.

Together, they stood beneath the bruised sky.

It didn’t feel triumphant.

It felt like planting a seed in ashes.

But Micah knew, somewhere deep, that faith had always looked like that."
}
He slept beneath the cross that night.

When the sun rose, slow and red and strange, he opened his Bible and began to read again.

Even if no one else listened.

Even if only God heard.

Because someone had to say it out loud.